# REBEL 

In this directory you can find several folders and files: 

**rebel.py** consists of the first use of REBEL to translate from text to triples. It compares different sources of the same model (different results even if they are the same model) and different preprocessing steps (correferences, split into sentences).

**rebel_lexicalizatior.py** is a script to translate text triplets into RDF triplets using DBpedia spotlight and a lexicalization table.
We keep track of every posible case explained in the doc and the paper.

**rebel_single_hp.py** similar to **rebel.py**. We perform inference in a single text and we compare different sources of the model (spacy, transformers pipeline and transformers manually). We also test the results with differente values for the hyperparameters "max_length", "length_penalty", "num_beams", "num_return_sequences".

**plot_statistics** Script to generate plots based on the results of the differente configurations for REBEL and Text2RDF. The plots can be found in the results folder (lexicalization_strategy_rebel.svg and text2rdf_rebel.svg)

**main_rebel.py** main script to translating text abstracts into text triplets using the "best" configuration we have found for REBEL. There is support for single and multiple texts inference.

**lexicalization_properties.json** lookup table that associates text [properties generated by rebel](https://github.com/Babelscape/rebel/blob/main/data/relations_count.tsv) with properties of the DBpedia or Wikidata ontology.

**evaluation.py** Naive evaluation of the REBEL approach to translate raw text into RDF. We check if property range and domain matches type of subject and object. Also we check if the triplet is alredy in the graph.

**doc.md** Brief explanation of the approach, some related work and useful links. 

**model/** Folder with the rebel model.

**results/** Folder with results of some experiments, images and logs. There is a readme file explaining what are those files.
